So in the last lesson, we created a unit test to set us up for that scenario where we're trying to
enable ourselves to pass in a first name of an employee and then get back out the associated salary
for that employee.
And so we wrote that test, we implemented some code that would actually let us do this by iterating
currently over the tree set, right?
So we just loop over it and we search and say, Hey, is this the person we're looking for?
Is this one?
When we find the correct one that's down here in this get salary method, right?
So we're looping over these people asking if any of their first names match the first name that we happen
to be searching for.
Then we return the salary, and that does work.
But I was pointing out that that's not particularly an efficient thing to do in real life, especially
if you could potentially have a really large list.
So now we're going to learn how to do this in probably a better way in many cases by utilizing an actual
map.
So the way we will do this is to come back up here to where we are populating our tree set.
So to do so, we are currently looping over the individual employees in this string, as you already
know.
And then we're creating an individual employee for each one of the strings, for each one of the items
in that string.
Here's our employee and then we're casting, if we don't remember if we were doing that for a particular
reason, because currently we don't really need that, but whatever.
Anyway, and then we're adding it to this collection here, which is currently a tree set.
So what we can do now is, I think we're going to add to this rather than change or take away.
So I think what we'll want to do is create a an actual map, an instance of an actual map.
And in addition to adding these people to this employee collection, we can populate the map at the
same time.
OK.
So to do that, all we need to do is I'm going to just come right here after where we are currently
defining the tree set and populating that I'll make a new line.
And let's just define a map.
Now a map, I will remind you a map.
The map interface maps a key object to a value object.
So unlike collections which just hold a list of single objects, right?
A map is a list of pairs of objects.
OK.
A key object and a value object.
So when we are defining our map, we need to.
Also, it is helpful for us to use generics to define what the types of the key, what the type of the
key is and the type of the value.
So you'll see that right here.
So I'm going to say that we're going to create a variable of type map.
I'm going to use a generic, though, and you can see the hint right here can be four key and value,
right with the less than and greater than symbols here.
So if I do this, then I can say what the two types are going to be.
Now our keys are going to be first names.
A first name is text.
Text is best represented as a string, right?
And so my key data type for the generic will be string.
And then the what we're wanting to map to is when we pass in a name, a first name, we will get back
out a salary.
The salaries in this application are currently being modeled as integers.
However, we have a problem and that is that in our generics, we can only specify classes and not primitives.
However, as you should know, by now, all of the primitive numeric data types have an accompanying
wrapper class type, and the JVM or Java system can automatically essentially wrap and unwrap, which
is called boxing or unboxing.
It can.
It can automatically wrap and unwrap those data types for us at will.
So even though our salaries are primitive integers, we can specify capital integer for the data type
there.
OK.
So this is saying we want to map strings to integers.
Now you'll notice that I'm getting a red mark here for the map because that interface needs to be imported.
So I can do that by simply doing a.
Option return and then choose import.
There we go.
OK.
And then I need to name the variable, but I don't want to make a really long name here.
I could name it something like name to salary map.
I think I may just call it salary map.
Now I will make a note here.
I can sometimes be a bit of a stickler, and I've mentioned this once before in one of the previous
and one of the previous lessons.
I'm often not a fan of pudding, of naming my variables with with the name of the data type that I'm
going to be using.
It just depends on what I mean by that or what someone else means by that.
So oftentimes I mentioned before, sometimes people programmers will create a an array list variable
like employees or something.
And instead of naming it employees, they'll call it employee list.
I'm generally not a fan of that because I think it's more helpful to psychologically think of these
variables in terms of what they represent.
Now again, I said this before.
If that concept represents a list to you in the sense of like a, you know, a sheet with a list of
names.
OK, fine.
But if you're putting the word list on there because you're just thinking about the fact that you're
going to use an array list class, that's a bad reason to put the word list on there.
So it's kind of a semantic thing here, but I just encourage you to think more in terms of the concepts
rather than the classes.
OK.
In this case, I'm going to use the word map more conceptually than rather than because of the class.
I want to convey that this is a variable that will hold a mapping of one data type or of one set of
data to the other.
Now I'm being a little lazy here, and I'm not specifying what both of those types of data are.
I could say employee salary map, right?
And maybe I should, but I'm being a little lazy now.
OK, so salary map for me for now equals new and now we get to choose.
And now we get to choose an implementation of the map interface and the first implementation we're going
to work with is the fastest one generally, which is the hash map.
OK.
And I'm already being presented with it, so I'm just going to select it here now.
If you're not being presented with that, then you can just type in hash and you can just start typing
in hash map.
And the ADP will probably catch up with you there.
And then I will hit return.
And there we go.
And closed that off in that way.
All right.
Next up, we need to actually populate this guy.
Now we've got this loop down here, this while loop where we're that we're currently using to populate
our set already.
And so my inclination is to just piggyback off of the fact that we're already doing that here in this
loop and add in one more bit here.
And in fact, Line 48 is where we're adding the current employee to the employee's collection or the
employee set.
So what I'm inclined to do is make a new line here and add in the mapping as well for each and every
employee.
So what we're going to be saying here is that for this given employee, get the first name, get the
salary, add them to this map.
That's basically it.
And we can do that by referencing the map salary map dot.
Now we don't use the add method here, and in fact, there is not an ad method.
Instead, we use a method called put.
That's just how you do it.
So put and then you'll see here that the the put method takes the key and the value.
So I'll get my parentheses here.
So for the key?
One other thing to note where we're casting this employee to type employee.
So we have the same access to the first name and last name, as well as the salary, just as we did
down here in our get salary method.
In fact, we're doing it in exactly the same way.
All right, so put.
So I will reference the EMP variable here.
First name comma, EMP Dot, get salary and then close that off.
All right.
So just make a note of what this is equivalent to doing is just making a list as we're going through
each employee and we're writing first name, the first name of the employee in one column and then the
salary associated with that employee in the second column, right?
And then because all of this is happening in a loop, then you'll go down to the next line and then
do the same thing for a for the next employee.
Right.
And so you're just continuously populating this map with this mapping of first name to salary, right?
And so when that loop is done running, all of those employees will be populated into the map with their
first names and salaries.
Now we have to address a problem that we already addressed earlier, and that is this is all well and
good.
We're populating this map, but how do we get the data out of the map, right, which is down here in
this get salary method?
So currently we're creating that map as a local variable in the main method, and therefore it will
not be accessible to us here in the get salary method.
So I think you should know how we can solve this problem now.
Think about it for a moment and then come back to me.
OK, so hopefully you figured that one out because we just got finished doing it in the last lesson,
right?
So what we can do is we can simply convert this salary map variable into a field of the class again.
And so we will select it, go down to refactor and introduce field.
And then I will accept the default and simply hit return.
There we go.
And so now all the stuff that was to the left of this has disappeared and moved up to the very top of
the class right underneath the previous variable that we also introduced as a field.
And so now we can go down to our get salary method here and guess what we can do now.
This is going to be pretty fun.
We can actually take all of this.
And get rid of it, because we don't need to do any of that now, and in fact, I'm going to go one
step further and get rid of this return here like that and then I will make a new line above here.
And so now what we can do is simply, well, actually, I'll just show you.
So the variable was called a salary map.
Notice, I'm just typing S.M.
And then the ADP says here, here's a variable that matches the S.M. that you're referencing, and I'll
hit enter salary map dot now to get anything out of this map.
I use the get method get and then I pass in a key.
And the key is of whatever data type I care about.
So in this case, the a string.
OK, so it's the first name.
OK, that's the key.
So get so I can pass in this first name here and this is going to return.
If it finds a match, it's going to return an integer so I can just return that.
And now let's see if this still works.
So if I rerun this, it should hopefully pass if this is working.
Hey, there we go.
Right.
So look at how much how much code we got rid of by just adding essentially two lines of code up here,
right?
We create a new hash map.
We populate the hash map here one time.
Now we can do as many lookups as we want down here, and they will be blazingly fast.
Now.
Because we're using a hash map, which are really, really fast, they're doing exactly this type of
look up.
And so I hope this is making it clear to you how using a map can be quite helpful.
Any time you need to do frequent lookups of data that isn't going to change very often, right, you
can just populate all that data into the map.
And then bam, bam, bam, just look things up very, very quickly.
OK, so I'm going to go ahead and just show you real quick now.
Obviously, we could swap out the implementation of this map for one of the other two most commonly
used ones.
So besides hash map, which again is the fastest typically, but if we were to print out this hash map
and in fact, here, let's let's do that real quick.
Let's print out this hash map.
I don't know down here after the size, so I will just do this system that our print line salary map.
Just like that.
So let's see what that what that prints out.
So right now, I'm going to just run the program from here.
I'm just going to run the main method from here, so we won't be running our test.
We'll just run the the main method now.
OK.
So after the size, we're printing out the salary map.
And so that's this guy right down here.
So there's R in a which is set to zero.
So see how it presents these things.
The key and then an equal sign and then the value right?
Barney equals 6500.
Fred five equals eight thousand.
So notice they're not in any easily discernible order, right?
Because it's using a hash map.
They are really in the order of the indexing algorithm for the hashes themselves, if that's meaningful
to you, right?
Yeah.
So.
So not in any discernible order.
And that doesn't matter for our purposes in this application right now.
We just want something that's really, really fast.
Then this will be super, super fast.
However, we can change this implementation, as you know, and I mentioned in the intro video for in
the intro lesson for the map interface that the there are three most common implementations for the
map interface, which all correspond to the most common enter to the most common implementations of
the set interface.
So we're looking at hash map now and then we've also got tree map and then linked hash map.
So let's take a quick look at the tree map.
So all we need to do is just change this implementation from hash to tree.
There we go.
And we should be able to just run our test and have everything still work, so to prove that I will
jump back over here to the test and hit the play button.
There we go, so nothing broke that still works, OK?
But if I jump over here, back to the main class.
And rerun it now, now I'm not running the test, I'm running just the the main method of the main class
again so that we can see how does the tree map represent itself when it is asked to printed up print
itself out as a string, right?
So now looking here, down here, we've got Barney Barney to Barney three, Barney for Barney Fife.
So you see what's going on here, right?
It is now.
In alphabetical order, according to the Keys.
OK, so the keys, the entries are alphabetized bye bye key.
And again, that is controlled because the data type for the key is string string implements compare
the comparable interface.
And so they end up being in alphabetical order.
So pretty straightforward.
And then finally, let's look at changing this implementation to the linked hash map linked hash map.
There we go.
And I won't bother running the tests because, you know, it's already going to pass, but we'll see
how a linked hash map represents itself as a strength, so I will just rerun the main method here again.
OK, and now we've got Fred in a Fred, too, Fred three, Fred four, Barney.
And as you may recall, this list, this ordering matches up with the order that we have here.
So this is really in the insert order, right?
The order in which we are inserting the data is the order that these are coming out now.
Oh yes.
Now one thing worth noting these multiple threads here are sort of kind of being filtered out.
However, be careful about one thing with a map.
If you try to add values to the map and the key is already there.
It won't exactly ignore the new value that you're trying to set, it will simply take it will actually
take the new value that you're trying to set and replace the previous ones.
So what I mean by that is so here we've got all these duplicated threads.
I'm intentionally skipping this last one, though, because his data type, because his role is not
technically a programmer.
And so it's a little bit of a special case.
But all of these regular duplicated Fred's what is technically happening here is that the salary that
is being associated with so-called Fred is not the salary from this first Fred.
It's actually the salary from this last Fred.
OK.
Now, in this case, there is no distinction, really, because all of the data that that contributes
to calculating the salary is the same anyway.
But if these had all been different, in fact, let's let's go ahead and change a few things here.
Let's make this.
Eight.
Seven.
Six, five and four, and I'll leave the two the same, right, so if this Fred's salary is being is
reflecting the values that are on this very first Fred, then we won't see any difference here.
We're seeing what is this two point eight million or so, right?
If, on the other hand, it is taking the value from this one down here?
Or even this one down here, in fact, let's let's let's make that a nine.
OK, then we'll see something different.
Right?
So let's rerun this and see what we see, what we see.
Oh, yes, see, now that's a different value.
Now let's determine, is this value coming from this Fred or this Fred?
Right?
So I'll change this nine to 10.
Rerun this again.
So we have one one to something rather right?
OK, so we still have one one to blah blah blah.
So that tells us that this salary is coming from this, this Fred right here with the eight thousand
and just to be really, really certain, let's change this again.
Let's let's change this now to a nine.
And now we should see something different here, so it won't be one one two anymore.
Let's see.
Yeah, there we go now, it's one to six.
OK.
So let me just reiterate the logic that's happening here with the map when we first when the code first
populates the map with this first Fred.
It does what you would think it would do.
It takes this first name of Fred.
And then it takes whatever the salary is that will be calculated from all of this stuff, and it puts
that pair that key value pair into the map.
Then we move down to the next Fred and it will see that we already have an entry in the map called Fred.
But unlike a set, it won't just ignore this and or filter it out, it will take whatever value we are
calculating for this next Fred and simply replace what was there with this new one.
OK.
So doesn't ignore or filter.
It just replaces that value.
Fred is a Fred is a Fred, right?
It doesn't know or care that there are duplicates.
OK, now the map.
This map won't allow for duplicates.
We can't have multiple entries with the key of Fred.
OK.
There can only be one entry and buy entry.
I mean, one line or one row, if you will.
There can only be one entry in the map per key.
OK.
And so the values, though, will just be updated according to whatever the last value was that we tried
to associate with that key.
And so that's why each time this code encounters a new Fred, it will simply replace that value in the
in the map.
It won't be ignored.
OK.
And so whatever the last Fred was of of type program, or at least that's what you're going to get for
the salary, and that's why the salary is being reflected by whatever number we have here.
OK?
It's actually going through all of these.
But when it's all said and done you, you finalize on this last one.
That's what's actually happening.
And then if any of you are wondering how come this last Fred isn't affecting this, keep in mind, our
code is actually taking these strings and converting them into a an instance of the employee class,
right, and then populating the first and last name.
And it's actually instantiating a subclass of the employee based on this field right here, right?
Programmer So if it's a programmer, then it's creating an instance of the programmer class.
However, if this field mentioned some value that doesn't map to any of the known subclasses that we
have coded for, then it is creating a special case.
If you will recall, a dummy class, I think is where we ended a dummy employee, something like that.
And then it is setting the first and last name to in-a.
Remember that?
And so in a way is what's actually being populated into the map and not the name Fred.
And that's why this value isn't being used to calculate the salary for this Fred right here.
And instead, we have this in a being set to zero.
OK, so quick, quick little reminder there and clarification as to why this Fred isn't impacting things.
All right.
So super, super powerful interface.
Really, really useful for doing these kinds of look ups.
And you will see maps used all over the place when programming because they're just so useful anytime
you need to remember some.
Hey, whenever I do this, do you know, associate this value with this associate, this object or key
with this value, right?
You run into those kinds of scenarios all the time, kind of like we have here where you just want to
be able to quickly get something out and you don't want to have to iterate over a whole bunch of data
every single time you need to do that type of look up.
OK, so anytime you need to do a look up, a simple look up with one input resulting in one output,
you can use a map.
One of the thing I want to mention, though, you don't have to do simple mappings like we're doing
here where we are mapping well, here, let's go up here.
Where we are mapping a string to an integer, you can map just about anything to anything, really,
you could map the first name to the entire object, so I could map a string to an employee.
Like this?
And then, in fact, I really could do this, in fact, let's go ahead and do this and then instead
of just grabbing the salary here, we could actually just get rid of all of that and just put the entire
employee in here and we can still make this work.
In fact, so down here in our get salary method, now we're what we're getting out of here is not a
an integer, but this get method is now going to return an employee, which is still useful because
now from that employee, we can still call get salary.
Does that make sense?
So if we make our map map the first name to the end to an entire employee, that's fine.
We can still do that now.
Technically, we probably would want to rename this if we're going to do this, so I can rename this
with a shift of six.
And then maybe instead of calling it salary map, maybe I call it employee map and I'm lazy, so I'll
just call it empty map.
OK, so so now it maps to employees.
And then we are no longer.
Populating a first name and a salary now we're populating a first name and the entire employee object.
OK.
And then down here, though, we can still find the exact employee that we care about very, very,
very quickly, simply by using the first name.
OK.
And then once we do a get this get method is now returning an entire employee.
So you can imagine this whole entire blue highlighted thing here turns into an employee, which is why
I can just put the dot right after it and then call methods that exist on the employee class, such
as get salary.
So this is just as useful.
And in fact, in many cases, this may be even more useful.
If I had other methods like, let's say that I wanted to have another look up method public.
I don't know, string get last name from the first name, right?
So here I could do IMAP.
Don't get my first name.
And then last name.
See that.
So this gives me a lot of flexibility, and I don't have to keep creating new maps for every type of
mapping in the world, right?
I could simply reference that same map because it returns back for a look up.
It just returns an entire employee.
So I get the best of all benefits.
I get the the high speed of using a map to look up something with the flexibility by being able to decide
by method here, by method here what it is that I want to grab out of each of those employees, right?
So I'm a little less constrained, perhaps by doing it in this way.
All right.
So now I'll wrap this up and we'll take a look at a few more little things in the next lesson, and
I'll see you there.